# Pewlett-Hackard-Analysis

## Project Overview
Pewlett-Hackard is needing to prepare for the impending changes to its large workforce. Bobby, the manager, is hoping to prepare the company for expected retirements within the company and to strategize in replacing these positions. I needed to create employee databases and to organize the data to intepret the employee names, birth dates, employment tenures, and employee titles in order to determine which employees will be retiring, how many will be retiring, and strategizing how to facilitate mentoring replacements for the pending vacancies. PostgreSQL and pgAdmin were utilized in order to create data bases and to manipualte imported data. Primary and foreign key data sets were identified and organized in order to join data sets. Entity Relationship Diagrams (ERDs) provided a road map and connection matrix amongst data points that would serve as the foundation for determining our desired final data table that would identify likely retiring employee profiles. Select statements were used to extract data such as age and tenure of employees to help identify the pool of potential retirees and Count was used to identify the size of the pool. Joins were used to tie employee data with workforce data to determine how potential retirements would impact particular departments. Count, Group By, and Order By were used to yield our final results from the joined data tables. Distinct on was used to determine how many retirements were expected per job title and to determine which employees were eligible to participate in the mentorship program. 

## Results

## Summary
Retiring employees in the upcoming years are largely occupying senior positions within the company. This is going to present a few challenges for Bobby as it will take a concerted effort to train and mentor junior employees to fill these roles. Hewlett-Packard will have to consider the direction they wish to take the company in coming years as filling these senior positions will shape the company's culture in the coming years. Identifying potential retiring employees ahead of time will allow the company to benefit from having senior employees pass along their knowledge and skill sets that have contributed to their long tenure and success within the company. Bobby may also want to better understand the characteristics that has led to the success of these employees that will help shape outside hiring decisions by building a desired employee profile.  
